Add tools.cppstd_minimum_required (#1467)
conan-io/docs: reference/tools.rst

Parameters:
    - **arch** (Required): Arch to perform the conversion. Usually this would be ``self.settings.arch``.

.. _tools.check_min_cppstd:

tools.check_min_cppstd()
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    def check_min_cppstd(conanfile, cppstd, gnu_extensions=False)

> Validate the current cppstd from settings or compiler, if it is supported by the required cppstd version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates if the applied cppstd setting (from `compiler.cppstd` settings or deducing the default from `compiler` and `compiler.version`) is at least the value specified in the `cppstd` argument.
```

It raises a ``ConanInvalidConfiguration`` when is not supported.

.. code-block:: python

    from conans import tools, ConanFile

    class Recipe(ConanFile):
        ...

        def configure(self):
            tools.check_min_cppstd(self, "17")

* If the current cppstd does not support C++17, ``check_min_cppstd`` will raise an ``ConanInvalidConfiguration`` error.

> * When there is no cppstd declared in setttings or is ``None``, the current compiler version listed in the profile will be used to detect

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   the default standard C++ version supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * If ``gnu_extensions`` is True, the settings and/or compiler must support/offer GNU extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If ``gnu_extensions`` is True, it is required that the applied ``cppstd`` supports the gnu extensions.
```

  (e.g. gnu17), otherwise, an :ref:`ConanInvalidConfiguration<conditional_settings_options_requirements>` will be raised. The ``gnu_extensions`` is checked in any OS.

Parameters:
    - **conanfile** (Required): ConanFile instance. Usually ``self``.
    - **cppstd** (Required): C++ standard version which must be supported.
    - **gnu_extensions** (Optional): GNU extension is required.

.. _tools.valid_min_cppstd:

tools.valid_min_cppstd()
------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    def valid_min_cppstd(conanfile, cppstd, gnu_extensions=False)

Validate the current cppstd from settings or compiler, if it is supported by the required cppstd version.
It returns ``True`` when is valid, otherwise, ``False``.

.. code-block:: python

    from conans import tools, ConanFile

    class Recipe(ConanFile):
        ...

        def configure(self):
            if not tools.valid_min_cppstd(self, "17"):
                self.output.error("C++17 is required.")

* The ``valid_min_cppstd`` works exactly like ``check_min_cppstd``, however, it does not raise ``ConanInvalidConfiguration`` error.

> * If the current cppstd does not support C++17, ``valid_min_cppstd`` returns ``False``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * If ``gnu_extensions`` is True, the settings and/or compiler must support/offer GNU extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   (e.g. gnu17), otherwise, it will return ``False``. The ``gnu_extensions`` is checked in any OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Parameters:
    - **arch** (Required): Arch to perform the conversion. Usually this would be ``self.settings.arch``.

.. _tools.check_min_cppstd:

tools.check_min_cppstd()

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: too long

Author: done

.. code-block:: python

    def check_min_cppstd(conanfile, cppstd, gnu_extensions=False)

Validate the current cppstd from settings or compiler, if it is supported by the required cppstd version.

> It raises a ``InvalidConfiguration`` when is not supported.

Reviewer: That exception doesn't exist. Is ``ConanInvalidConfiguration``. Link to https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/mastering/conditional.html

Author: done

.. code-block:: python

    from conans import tools, ConanFile

    class Recipe(ConanFile):
        ...

        def configure(self):
            tools.check_min_cppstd(self, "17")

> * If the current cppstd does not support C++17, ``check_min_cppstd`` will raise an ``InvalidConfiguration`` error.

Reviewer: Idem

Author: done

* When there is no cppstd declared or is ``None``, the current compiler version listed in the profile will be used to detect
  the compatibility with the required C++ standard.
* If ``gnu_extensions`` is True and your current OS is Linux, the settings and/or compiler must support/offer GNU extensions

>   (e.g. gnu17), otherwise, an ``InvalidConfiguration`` will be raised. The ``gnu_extensions`` is only checked on Linux, for

Reviewer: Idem

Author: done

  any other OS it will be skipped.

Parameters:
    - **conanfile** (Required): ConanFile instance. Usually ``self``.
    - **cppstd** (Required): C++ standard version which must be supported.
    - **gnu_extensions** (Optional): GNU extension is required (only for Linux).

.. _tools.valid_min_cppstd:

tools.valid_min_cppstd()

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: too long

Author: done

Author: done

.. code-block:: python

    def valid_min_cppstd(conanfile, cppstd, gnu_extensions=False)

Validate the current cppstd from settings or compiler, if it is supported by the required cppstd version.
It returns ``True`` when is valid, otherwise, ``False``.

.. code-block:: python

    from conans import tools, ConanFile

    class Recipe(ConanFile):
        ...

        def configure(self):
            if not tools.valid_min_cppstd(self, "17"):
                self.output.error("C++17 is required.")

> * The ``valid_min_cppstd`` works exactly like ``check_min_cppstd``, however, it does not raise ``InvalidConfiguration`` error.

Reviewer: idem

Author: done

* If the current cppstd does not support C++17, ``valid_min_cppstd`` returns ``False``.

> * When there is no cppstd declared or is ``None``, the current compiler version listed in the profile will be used to detect

Reviewer: I would remove from here. Saying it is the same but returning False when the other raises, it is enough

Author: done
